---
title: Unpopular Opinion - I kinda like online college 
date: 2020-09-08
---

[[toc]]

## Intro 
I know I know, whenever says unpopular opinion that's actually just code for
"popular opinion - oh aren't I brave". Maybe I'll change the title to 

> Popular Opinion - oh aren't I brave - I kinda like online college 

Maybe.

But seriously I do. I think there are a number of benefits at least for me that
happens in online college. 

## Core

I think one of the benefits as well is a question of what you're getting out of
college. Maybe I'll rename this blog "obfuscated links to
[SSC](https://slatestarcodex.com/)" but he does have one great article called
["Against Tulip
Subsidies"](https://slatestarcodex.com/2015/06/06/against-tulip-subsidies/) the
crux of which is, "don't you think it's kinda absurd that we've propped up
education to be this thing that everyone has to do". And he has a point, when
you ask ~~80~~90% of college students what do you want to do they'll say "I
don't know" and then you'll respond "That's okay you don't have to know yet" and
then "They'll say yeah I know" and then you'll repeat that conversation every
single time with every single college student. Part of the problem with that
conversation is you're not asking, "What interests you", which is really what
you should be asking, instead you're usually asking, "how do you want to make
money in this ~~hellscape~~world". The latter is a really boring question. 

I'd say that most students don't really know what interests them and... that's
okay. 

Ultimately I think the issue most people are feeling is that college is treated,
at least in the US, as a very expensive path to "finding yourself" (I put
that in quotes not to mock it up but to emphasize how intangible that phrase
is). If this is true, then yeah, college is going to suck a lot right now. So I
think one of the consequences of school going online is it obviously forced us
to reconsider the value of why we're going to school. However, instead saying,
"I go to school for the college experience, I can't have that therefore I'm going
to take a gap semester/year" I think the question really should be, "Why do we depend
on college to be these 4 years to find ourselves, seems expensive". 

I don't want this writing to come off as the
[#learn](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/learn-to-code)[ToCode](https://newrepublic.com/article/153019/fetid-right-wing-origins-learn-code)
meme where I stand on my high horse comprised of a silicon valley career making
unicorn apps (which I don't do now so it's not really my horse to stand on). I
study computer science because I like the topic. When people say a school's
curriculum is "language-agnostic" I'd go so far to say that a good CS program
should be able to be "computer-agnostic". It's called a **B.S.** in Computer
Science and not Programming for a reason. 

I'm not intending to belittle students who complain about the price of college
and what they're getting this season. If anything, even if everyone attended
college purely for its educational purpose the price is still too high! My point
more was to question why we expect college the place to "find yourself". If you
were told about a person who drank above average and was age 18-22 and did some
work but not a lot because they were finding themselves through one mean or
another the typical attitude would be negative. If we say the same person is
attending college then it's suddenly normal or okay. 

The question then I want to ask if why do we expect college? When faced with the
statement, "most people don't use their degrees" those in the humanities say
that well that's alright because college isn't about reciting Plato or
remembering the dates of the revolutions of 1848 it's about the soft skills or
well-roundedness we get from those. No doubt there's truth there. My question is
then is, if we're optimizing for soft skills, is college really the best means
to do that? Seems expensive. 

The usual college tract is pick an academic subject, maybe jump around, fulfill
the courses, graduate *voila!* Some details are redacted to make it concise. The
point is though that first step, **pick an academic subject**. College as an
institution is dependent upon that first step and the truth of the matter is,
most academic subjects are really boring. If there were one subject that truly
was more interesting and better than the rest then everyone would flock to it.
If you're going to make it any distance past the surface, it gets hard. It's
really not so unreasonable to expect 18-22 students to not be interested in such
things, especially when surrounded by all the other attractions in college.
