---
title: Things I learned in Fall 2020
---

I decided that I might as well wrap up the Fall semester and talk about what
went well, what didn't, what I learned (if anything), what I'm excited for etc.

## Takeaways

### TCS

I took 251 Great Ideas in Theoretical CS this semester. The key takeaway I'd say
is graphs, graphs everywhere. Seems like a lot of problems can be reduced to
graphs (there's a joke about here in reductions somewhere). I did not do well as
well as I would've liked in this class. My grade was saved at the very last
moment by divine virtue I believe. In the beginning the class was amazing. The
homeworks were difficult and you'd spend hours sitting making marginal gains.
In the beginning I remember the amazing feeling of finishing a problem and being
confident and jumping up so excited. You really felt like you accomplished
something great. 

After a while school, life, other things took over and I spent less and less
time reviewing the notes for the class. I also developed a severe anxiety in
relationship to the class but that's something else entirely... Discrete math
humbles you in the sense that you can go down 100 wrongs paths and make no real
effort towards the heart of the solution. It sucks and it requires a strong
spirit to keep going down wrong paths despite so many failures. I didn't have
such a spirit. Despite this, I still think discrete math is a fantastic subject
that should be taught to a larger audience to some degree. It's beautiful to
learn. Paul Erdos the famous meth-fueled mathematician used to get jealous of
g-d for having a book with all the world's best proofs in it. When ever he
discovered a quite elegant proof he'd exclaim, this one's from the book!
Mathematical beauty is one of those things that might be impossible to convey.
It's a know it when you see it sort of thing. It's a right time, right place,
right part of the country sort of thing. Even with all of this if you don't see
the 'right' proof even then you might not see the true elegance. It's a shame
and I think it might lead to a interesting philosophical argument of how
something could be inherently beautiful but that beauty can't always be seen.
I'm sure someone's concerned with such things.

Highlight of the class? Probably
[this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karger%27s_algorithm?oldformat=true)
algorithm and it's associated proof. The analysis that Karger's Algorithm
actually works is so nice and really highlights and shows off to me the beauty
of [BPP](https://complexityzoo.net/Complexity_Zoo:B#bpp). I will admit,
previously I was doubtful. No doubt random algorithms are incredibly powerful
and important. I just thing that this particular algorithm really shows off such
power.

Finally I wanted to touch on something that was on my mind a lot during this past
semester. That's [this
post](https://vonahn.blogspot.com/2009/03/failing-students.html) and [this
post](https://vonahn.blogspot.com/2009/02/homework-and-search-engines.html) by
Luis Von Ahn. I used to look up to Professor Ahn a lot when I was younger.
Professor Ahn created Captcha and Duolingo products which used computer science,
real computer science, to hopefully better the world. If you don't know both
products harness the [wisdom of the
crowd](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wisdom_of_the_crowd?oldformat=true) to
either [digitize all the books in the
world](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/04/the-tragedy-of-google-books/523320/)
or provide crowdsourced translations. It's great stuff I love it a lot. And then
I read that blog post and I lost so much respect for Professor Ahn. At the same
time I'm conflicted. I recognize I have a conflict of interest that had he been
my professor this semester I would've failed. And Professor Ahn does have
somewhat of a good point? If college is *supposed* to train the next generation
of computer scientists then why not train them like the world's best athletes.
However, something about this sentiment seems wrongs to me. While I completely
agree with it on paper (despite the saddness I feel that I wouldn't be near the
top) I feel it clashes with our current conception of education. If students
went to school for free and didn't need to worry about the connection between
their job and their education then yes 100% maybe putting college freshman
through a trial by theoretical computer science would be good for everyone
involved. But that's not the fact of the matter. I had a lot of anxiety about
this class this summer in part because it was online and I felt alone doing
discrete math wondering why I'm doing this? Secondly though, and more
importantly, I'm not in the school of computer science (yet). Failing this
class, or even the thought of failing such a class let me to catastrophize...

Anyhow, it's something to think about. However, I've made a promise to myself
that this isn't the end of the road for me with TCS. I'm going to try and take
the graduate version of 15251 sometime and I'm definitely intending to take
other TCS classes.

### Computer Vision 

I was most excited for this class this semester and it did not disappoint. We
learned lots of interesting techniques in computer vision. One of the funny
realizations was I'd be taking notes and we'd be deep in these math equations
and I'd totally forget that we were ever dealing with images. I think the big
academic takeaway besides all my notes is when in doubt use Singular Value
Decomposition to solve what you need to be solved. 99% of the time it works.

As a side note, [this](https://xkcd.com/793/) is me after realizing with enough
effort you can fit hyperplanes to n-dimensional data and that using this
knowledge surely we can solve all issues in all fields. On the topic of vectors,
I've found that mathematicians and computer scientists love saying this that and
the other thing is a vector. This didn't ever make much sense to me because I
was stuck thinking about the world physically.  N-dimensional vectors don't have
a huge bearing on reality although I'm sure we can find a lot of physicists to
disagree with me. Anyways, a vector is just an element with a lot values in it.
Obvious now, you learn something new everyday.

The one unfortunate thing about this class is that a lot of Computer Vision has
moved on to just use Deep Learning for everything. Nonetheless, I think it's
important to learn the fundamentals and understand why things work.

## Conclusions

This is an odd conclusion but looking back on this semester my mind goes to a
piece by Louis Kahn. I'll attach it here [here](../images/kahn.pdf) but I'll
quote the part I'm interested in below.

> During a seminar which was held at one of the universities, we gave ourselves
> the problem of trying to discover the nature of schools, not a school, not a
> program of a school, but simply school itself. The recognition of the
> singularity that you are different from another person gave rise to the idea
> that a man speaking to two people is not the same man talking to ten or the
> same man talking to a thousand.
>
> One could speak to a thousand when speaking of a formula. When you are
> discussing knowledge, when you are discussing thought and feeling, we know we
> are a different person speaking to two or four or eight, and that you are very
> much attuned to your own singularity and to the singularity of others. From
> this you come to the realization that school is not a series of rules as you
> would get from a school board, but rather a realm of space wherein it is good
> to learn.
>
> The architect when confronted with a problem of building a school has to start
> all over again and derive his source of design from where school began. Form
> is really inner image something which does not have shape or dimension, but
> something which has the reflection of the order of things which makes the
> realm of spaces for the activity of school particular and not like other
> spaces.

I've returned to this quote because... I'm not sure why. I think he strikes upon
something that's integral to the learning experience that played a huge factor
this semester. No doubt it was a tough semester and it's impossible to untangle
the effects of remote learning and the semester itself. Nonetheless, if I'm
allowed a moment of pride, I did make the deans list. Maybe Luis Von Ahn was
wrong all along (doubtful). 

